# RootML
This code has been a passion project of mine and I hope you will find it interesting. 

Explanation:

The code predicts both the winner and the final point total for a Root game based purely on the beginning set-up of the game.
The data I have used for this model are the data kindly provided by LilyG from MakeCraftGames from Rounds 1 & 2 of the 2021 Root Winter Tournament (RWT) organized by GuerricSamplesGames. This leads us to the biggest disclaimer of the model - the model is doing its best to predict based on the players and meta from the 2021 RWT which is different than broader public player base and meta.

Each player in a game is counted as a single obervation (or row) in the data. Thus, there are four observations per 4-player game of Root, and 256 total observations in the table. The player's entire set-up situation is marked down in binary in their observation. There are columns for whichever faction they are, and columns for the factions that their opponents are. The player's observation will have a 1 marked down for factions present, and a 0 marked down for factions absent. Likewise, they will recieve a 1 or 0 depending on the map used, and their seating position. There is a key file in this repository for each of the column labels. 

When given a hypothetical game, the code will predict whether each player will win using kNN and going from 1 neighbors to 64. This is the code's attempt to predict the winner. Since 3 out of the 4 players will lose the game, the code really likes to predict losses for players. So to combat this, I have the kNN machine learning algorithm repeat 64 times, with the number of neighbors ranging from 1 to 64. The code will then sum all of the times during the 64 repitions where the computer actualled predicted a win. This is the "score" that each player recieves. Whichever player has the highest score is the computer's favorite to win. This methodology is very dependent on past wins of other players, so unless someone has won in your situation before, the computer will have a very hard time believing you can win in that situation. 

In addition to giving each player a winning likelihood "score", each player will also recieve a predicition for their victory points at the end of the game. The victory point prediction is the result of running the data through a linear regression model. Since the linear regression uses the actual score from a player (0 to 30) instead of a yes or no if they won or not (0 to 1), dominance instances of -1 are removed to make the point predicitions more accurate. Below the predicitions, the summary stats from the linear regression model are printed. To help you understand what you are looking at: "coef" is how many points a player gains 

TO USE:
(1) Download the csv file and change line 7 of the code so the program accesses it. (2) The factions are abbreviated to the starting letter of the first two syllables, so type that in exactly when prompted. The map abbreviations are easier to interpret. Make sure to put the players in the correct seating order, the first faction you type will be considered the player with the first turn. (3) The player/faction with the most wins is considered "best". If all factions are at 0 points, it means there have been no similar situations to the one you have put in that have resulted in a win in any of the previous games.
